How much has happened in six years! Luckily for us, there has not been a paradigm shift (yet), but the amount of creative energy that has gone into the ﬁeld these past years is incredible. To keep up with this ever-growing ﬁeld, we are fortunate this time to be three authors instead of two. Naty Hoﬀman joins us this edition. He has years of experience in the ﬁeld and has brought a fresh perspective to the book. Since the second edition in 2002, researchers have produced hundreds of articles in the area of interactive computer graphics. At one point Naty ﬁltered through conference proceedings, saving articles he thought were worth at least a mention. From just the research conferences alone the list grew to over 350 references; this did not include those in journals, book series like GPU Gems and ShaderX, or web articles. We realized we had a challenge ahead of us. Even a thorough survey of each area would make for a book of nothing but surveys. Such a volume would be exhaustive, but exhausting, and ultimately unsatisfying. Instead, we have focused on theory, algorithms, and architectures that we felt are key in understanding the ﬁeld. We survey the literature as warranted, but with the goalof pointing you at the most recent workin an area and at resources for learning more. This book is about algorithms that create synthetic images fast enough that the viewer can interact with a virtual environment. We have focused onthree-dimensionalrenderingand, toalimitedextent, onuserinteraction. Modeling, animation, and many other areas are important to the process of making a real-time application, but these topics are beyond the scope of this book. We expect you to have some basic understanding of computer graphics before reading this book, as well as computer science and programming. Some of the later chapters in particular are meant for implementers of various complex algorithms. If some section does lose you, skim on through or look at the references. One of the most valuable services we feel we can provide is to have you realize what others have discovered and that you do not yet know, and to give you ways to learn more someday. 
